# Slab.css
Slab.css it a lightweight CSS toolkit based on Inuit.css/ITCSS.

## Getting started
Install Slab.css via yarn or bower and include in you main scss file as follows:

```scss
@import "path/to/slab/tools";
@import "vars"; // Your variable overrides go here
@import "path/to/slab/index";

// Your application styles go here
```

As your variable overrides can potentially use values specified in the various data maps, the functions to access these data maps need to be added first.

## Settings
Slab.css comes with 7 configurable variables used to setup the base font styles, colours and spacing of the toolkit.

`$base-font-size` (default: 16px)
Used to set the font size across all breakpoints. To adjust the font size through the breakpoints, update the font size via the html tag.

`$base-font-family` (default: Helvetica, sans-serif)
Sets the application wide font family. If a secondary or tertiary font is to be used it is recommended to create these as variable for consistency.

`$base-line-height` (default: 1.5)
Sets line height for all text. Also used to calculate `$base-spacing-unit`.

`$base-font-color`  (default: #999999)
Colour for all standard text and headings.

`$base-spacing-unit` (default: `$base-line-height` * 1rem)
The base spacing unit is use to calculate all spacing helpers provided by Slab.css. See ‘Spacing’ section to see default classes given and how to use them.

## Responsive
Slab.css manages its breakpoints and responsive helper classes via a sass data map `$breakpoints`. The data map allows you to set a media query and give it a name allowing it to be referenced easier throughout your application.

```scss
$breakpoints: (
    palm: '(max-width: 47.938em)',
    lap: '(min-width: 48em) and (max-width: 63.938em)',
    portable: '(max-width: 63.938em)',
    lap-and-up: '(min-width: 48em)',
    desk: '(min-width: 64em)',
    desk-wide: '(min-width: 90em)'
) !default;
```

The defaults shown above are accessed via the media-query sass mixin:

```scss
.box {
    padding-top: 1rem;

    @include media-query(lap-and-up) {
        padding-top: 2rem;
    }

    @include media-query(desk-wide) {
        font-size: 1.5rem;
    }
}
```

The breakpoints data map is also used to create grid and utility classes which are details in the ‘Grid’ section.

## Colours
Managing colours in Slab.css is done via a sass data map named `$palette`. The map allows for nicer management than standard sass variables and also creates helper classes to apply text and background colours to any element.  Each colour added must have a tone named `base` at a minimum.

Create map:
```scss
$palette: (
    'grey': (
        'base': #999,
      'light': lighten(#999, 25%),
      'dark': #333
    ),
  'red': (
        'base': #F00
  ),
);
```

 Access to the map is via the `getColour` mixin.

```scss
.box {
    background-color: getColour('red'); // 'base' is default
    color: getColour('grey', 'dark');
}
```

A set of utility classes are also generated.

```html
<div class="bg--grey-light text--red"></div>
```

## Grid
The Slab.css grid is an inline-block responsive grid with classes generated by the `$breakpoints` data map.

```html
<div class="grid">
    <div class="grid__item one-half palm-one-third"></div>
</div>
```

A grid is always wrapped in a `grid` class with each item having `grid__item`. By default each item will be 100% width but cal be changed via generated classes in the format `{namespace}-{fraction as text}`. The grid can have a maximum of 12 columns so fractions from 1 to 12 are available.

```css
.three-fifths // namespaceless grid spacer
.lap-and-up-ten-twelfths
.desk-one-whole
```

*Note:* as the grid is built using `inline-block` the space between the html tags must be removed for the grid to work correctly. This can be done through HTML comments or using the Craft CMS `{% spaceless %}` helper.

```html
<!-- HTML Comments -->  
<div class="grid">
    <div class="grid__item one-half palm-one-third"></div><!-- --><div class="grid__item one-half palm-one-third"></div><!--
--><div class="grid__item one-whole palm-one-third"></div>
</div>


<!-- Craft CMS helper -->
{% spaceless %}
<div class="grid">
    <div class="grid__item one-half palm-one-third"></div>          <div class="grid__item one-half palm-one-third"></div>
    <div class="grid__item one-whole palm-one-third"></div>
</div>
{% endspaceless %}
```

### Grid modifiers
The grid also comes with a number of modifier classes to adjust its alignment. These also have the option to be namespaced to only apply to a specific breakpoint.

`grid--rev` reverses the grid to content runs right to left.
`grid--right` aligns grid to the right. Will only work if grid items to do not make up 100% of the grid parent’s width.
`grid--center` centers align grid columns. Will only work if grid items to do not make up 100% of the grid parent’s width.
`grid—middle`  vertically aligns small grid columns to the center.
`grid—bottom` vertically aligns small grid columns to the bottom.

### Grid gutters
By default the grid will have its gutter width set to `$base-spacing-unit` but this can be changed via the gutter mixin.

```scss
.grid--my-custom-grid {
    @include gutter(0); // Removes gutter spacing.
}
```

Responsive grid gutter classes are also generated from the spacing data map.

```scss
.grid-16 // Gutter of $base-spacing-unit * 4 by default
.portable-grid-1
.desk-wide-grid-0
```

## Spacing
Slab.css allows for the creation of utility classes and sass variables to help with spacing. A data map is used to create references to various proportions based on `$base-spacing-unit`. By default the data map contains:

```scss
$spacing: (
    0: 0,
    1: $base-spacing-unit / 4,
    2: $base-spacing-unit / 2,
    4: $base-spacing-unit,
    8: $base-spacing-unit * 2,
    16: $base-spacing-unit * 4,
    32: $base-spacing-unit * 8
) !default;
```

Form these values, responsive utility classes are created for both margin and padding in the format `{namespace}-{margin/padding}{direction}{data map key}’.

If we assume `$base-spacing-unit: 16px`

```scss
.m4  // margin: 16px;
.ml0 // margin-left: 0;
.px2 // padding-left: 8px; padding-right: 8px;
.py1 // padding-top: 4px; padding-bottom: 4px;

.portable-mb32 // margin-bottom: 128px; on portable breakpoint
.desk-wide-p0 // padding: 0; on desk-wide breakpoint
```

*Note:* Each value in the spacing data map produces a large amount of css. If a value is not used in your application it is recommended to overwrite the data map in your `_vars.scss` with the appropriate values to reduce file size.

## Visibility
Responsive visibility helper classes are available to hide/show content based on breakpoints.

```scss
.hide-palm // hide on palm breakpoint
.show-lap-and-up // show on lap-and-up breakpoint
```

